we didn't know why the ocean was
salty how it got its chemistry
until fairly recently children
would ask you why is the ocean
salty would say next question we
thought
in the early days it was the
rivers they were the obvious
culprits bringing all this stuff
in but the chemistry of the
world's oceans is not equal to
the chemistry of the rivers
coming into it
we didn't know until in 1979
we are driving along the East
Pacific Rise and there was a
black smoker in front of us we
call it a black smoker because
it looks like black smoke but
it's not it's microcrystals of
minerals so we discovered when
we found the black smokers that
the entire volume of the world's
oceans is going inside the earth
and out every six to eight
million years and is taking some
of the chemicals it gets from
rivers and its trading them for
new chemicals and this is
occurring all along the
mid-ocean ridge that stretches
around the planet like the seam
on a baseball and there are tens
of thousands of magma chambers
down there and the waters get
into them and that's how we get
the chemistry of social
we didn't know